Look.
Have you seen Harald?
He slept again in the longhouse
with your parents.
It's the traders. They are coming.
It is the traders!
They're back.
Akí! Akí!
What happened?
From an axe.
Someone killed him.
Who would do that?
Who would do that to Akí?
Where is my father?
Welcome. We have so much to trade.
Your boats will not be able
to carry it all.
Did you kill Akí and steal our boat?
What are you talking about?
I did not kill anyone.
He has been murdered
and no one does anything around here
without your permission.
I demand a Thing.
I demand you to be put on trial
for the murder of Akí.
Do not test me, daughter.
I'm the leader here, not you.
You are not my leader.
You are just an old man
terrified of the future.
It appears my father wants
a trial by combat.
Let the gods decide
which one of us is right.
I do not wish to kill you, daughter.
Then I will kill you.
And now, you will learn a hard lesson.
The gods have spoken.
Submit to a trial or face death.
If you kill me,
you'll never see your son again.
What have you done to him?
Answer me. Where is Harald?
He is safe. As long as I am safe.
You wouldn't hurt him just to punish me.
Of course not.
Just the same as your people
do not hurt me.
Take her away!
You would be wise to stay out of this.
What are you doing?
She needs to relearn her place
in this family.
Take her to the storehouse!
There is no golden land.
I know. I have tried to find it.
And I tried my best to convince Freydis
of this, but she wouldn't listen.
I took her boats from her
and she still persisted in this myth.
If you had followed her,
you would all be dead.
No, Freydis will come around in time
and hopefully you will too.
But… if we work together,
we can turn Greenland
into the golden land.
Yes?
Yes.
You had no reason to kill Akí.
Hmm.
What is your name, girl?
- Hrefna.
Hrefna, I know you are confused.
But believe me when I tell you
the Greenland winter is coming
and it is not like the winters
you knew back home.
It is long. It is brutal.
And your tents will not keep you safe.
Your only chance of survival
is to be within these walls.
With us.
Let us pray.
Oh Lord, we thank you
for our safe return to Norway.
Here.
My father would have wished
a true Viking to have it.
Thank you, Lord Magnus.
My father's body.
It is not decomposed.
How can this be?
A second miracle has occurred.
Praise be to God.
Surely my father will be sainted now.
Come, let us give our thanks
to our Lord Jesus Christ. Come.
A miracle.
And you were there to witness it.
You have grieved long enough.
Get out.
I have two stories for you.
Tell me which one you prefer.
I said get out!
I am your Empress and you will obey me!
In my first story, the Empress grieved
for her beloved Romanos.
Then, to the great joy of her people,
she fell in love
with the most esteemed General Maniakes.
They quickly married
and he became Emperor.
That will never happen.
He did not love her either at first,
but she found so many ways to delight him
that, well,
they developed an understanding.
A mythic tale.
The second story…
I do not like so much.
The Empress was so overcome with grief,
that she took a knife
and drew its blade down the length
of her beautiful arms.
And General Maniakes still became Emperor.
He just found another wife.
When is my execution?
Tomorrow. Midday.
You want more?
Bring me your friends.
My father has told me
about your travels, Leif Eriksson.
Tell me about Constantinople.
Are the walls as great as I have heard?
They're taller than trees.
And thick as three boats set end to end.
King Canute!
I prayed fervently
that I would not miss your visit.
And God has answered
all your prayers, Magnus.
Magnus is just back from Jomsborg.
How was your mission?
Successful.
I recovered my father's remains
and by a miracle of God
his body has not decomposed.
A miracle indeed.
I would not have believed it either
had I not seen it with my own eyes,
and it has been confirmed by the Church.
You were in Jomsborg?
Yes.
Leif was just there.
To try and find his sister.
- Your sister?
- Freydis Eriksdotter.
Then you saw the devastation.
It appears a great plague had ravaged
the place before we arrived.
All we could find was a shrine to her.
You must have seen it.
I saw many things.
Including your ship sunk in the harbor.
Destroyed by a landslide
as we were departing.
Landslide. Really?
What are the odds?
We were most fortunate to have survived.
I truly believe it was the hand of God.
Indeed.
Hilde, I must help Freydis.
If you try, he will kill you.
Let me worry about that.
Just tell me where he has taken Harald.
I do not know.
I think you do.
Lang returned today with goods
from the Kalaallit people in the North.
They are good people.
If Erik left Harald with them,
he will be taken care of.
How do I get there?
By boat, it is at least a week's journey.
- And on foot?
- It is much longer.
You must cross the mountains.
I need to see Freydis before I go.
You will pay for this, Father.
I called a meeting of your people.
I told them what will happen
when the cold winds blow
and I made it clear what will happen
if they choose to fight against me.
They have agreed to follow me.
You gave them no choice.
Because you gave me no choice.
You say you're following a vision.
Well, I'm following mine.
I prayed for salvation.
And the gods sent me you.
Leif used to say, "You created this prison
for yourself because of your actions."
Now I see he is right.
It will grow cold tonight, daughter.
It is a lot warmer in the longhouse.
I have been cold before.
You will never break me.
I do not need to break you.
Just your followers.
I demand
you come out and fight.
Archers!
All hail, Canute.
The new King of England.
Emma of Normandy.
Be my wife, help me rule the North.
Yes, my king.
I am His Holiness the Pope,
God's most esteemed messenger on Earth.
And, uh, who are you?
I am Canute the Great.
King of the Northern Empire.
Oh!
The power!
Is there somebody here
who has betrayed me?
Because this feast is not over
until I have chopped off
at least one head.
As someone who is considering
converting to your faith,
I would find it inspirational
if I could witness
your father's miracle myself.
Would you mind if I see Olaf's body?
Not at all.
Bishop Grimketel can arrange that.
No. I'm afraid it is not possible.
Olaf's body is now considered sacred.
During his beatification,
it must only be tended to
by the most reverent nuns
and protected until we receive
confirmation from Rome
of Olaf's canonization.
Hmm.
Rules.
Family. Friends.
Thank you for joining me here in Kattegat,
under this roof where so many great things
have happened for me.
For our people.
And perhaps, for one of you.
Is that not why you are here?
To learn if your destiny
has a throne in it.
Prince Edward and Prince Alfred,
sons of Æthelred and Emma.
And Svein, already a king.
And Harefoot, chomping at the bit.
Willing to slay a thousand Wends
to prove that he is ready to wear a crown.
Am I forgetting someone?
- Harthacanute.
- Oh.
Of course…
Harthacanute.
You too have a seat
at this table of princes.
King-to-be.
Or maybe not.
Leif Eriksson.
You have been to many places,
the Rus, Egypt, Constantinople, Sicily.
And you have met
with many powerful rulers, have you not?
One or two.
Tell me, in all your experience
what makes a king successful?
Strength.
Two types of strength.
Two types. Tell us.
Strength of mind. Intelligence.
Intelligence. Interesting.
Edward, stand before your king.
Your father was a great king.
And your mother, we know,
a great queen twice over.
Do you agree with Leif…
that intelligence is an important quality
in a king?
I do, Your Highness.
The most important quality.
And do you believe that you would make
a great king of England?
I would make an excellent king, my lord.
But wait.
Leif, you said
there were two types of strength.
What is the second?
Physical strength.
The power to defend your position.
And your words.
And who here possesses that strength?
I can answer that for you, Father.
There is no prince in this room
physically stronger than me.
I agree.
But Leif, which of these two strengths
is more important?
That depends.
On what?
The person.
Interesting.
Then let us decide
who has the real strength
to become ruler of England.
You must stop this.
And who will stop this when I am gone?
No!
I think it is obvious
who the next King of England should be.
It is me.
I will be the next King of England.
Is that so, my youngest son?
It is.
So you would kill us all, little brother?
No. Svein has no interest in England,
so I'd leave him in Norway.
Thank you, Your Highness.
Next, I'd let you kill
both Edward and Alfred,
for left to their own devices
they are extremely dangerous.
And after I have done you this service,
what is to stop me from killing you?
Do you want to try and find out?
My huscarls are the strongest Vikings
in the world.
That is why I will be King of England.
Now I'm tired of this game.
Do you think it is a game, Harthacanute?
Of course it is, Father.
We already have a king… you.
To Canute the Great.
The first Viking king of England.
To Canute the Great! Skol!
Thank you.
But I will not live forever.
Therefore, this is my command.
Harthacanute, you will go to Denmark,
where you will become its king.
Prince Edward and Alfred,
you will return to Normandy
to continue your work there.
And Harefoot…
you will become
Harthacanute's regent in Denmark.
His guardian?
Yes.
And what about England?
There will be no King of England.
It will be ruled by a queen.
All hail Queen Emma.
Queen Emma.
No fighting.
There's plenty for all.
What news?
We have a new emperor.
General Maniakes has married
the Empress Zoe.
Sleep well.
We have a big day ahead.
We can now get
the same ornaments and skins
from other settlements,
closer to Iceland.
If you have nothing to trade,
there is no reason
to come all this way anymore.
I have been keeping this until last.
Now here is a reason to come back again.
This is impressive.
Where did you get it?
People who make these swords
live with me now.
And we will be making
many more of those in the future.
Lang. Erik says to get a drink.
Freydis.
Stígr.
Have you found Harald?
Mother believes
he's with the Kalaallit people.
They will be traveling
to their winter home soon.
I need to get out and find him.
Freydis, even if you could reach him
and get back safely,
we'd still be prisoners.
I am his mother.
I can find Harald.
But only you can free us.
When are the traders leaving?
In the morning.
Find my son.
I will find us a boat and a new captain.
Go. Do what you must for your people.
Mother!
Where were you?
I was not invited.
He made the boy child King of Denmark.
And me? Nothing but a servant.
There's much to learn from the boy child.
For a start he does not throw tantrums.
He also made Emma ruler of England.
Hmm.
It's not surprising.
And that does not upset you?
If I were to let
every small thing upset me,
I would not have accomplished
all that I have.
There are always advantages…
to any situation
if you keep your wits about you.
Such as?
No.
You tell me.
My rivals for the throne will be
in Denmark and Normandy.
Mmm-hmm.
What else?
After Canute dies…
what he wants becomes irrelevant.
Isn't that a better feeling
than throwing a plate of food?
Who's there?
Can't sleep?
Me neither.
I keep thinking about the rocks
that destroyed your ship.
Didn't look like the hand of God to me.
It looked more like the hand of my sister.
It also… didn't look like
there'd been a plague.
It looked like there'd been a fight.
Tell me.
What did you see?
I… I saw…
He is the devil. Magnus.
Evil runs through his veins.
It is not his father we brought back.
And it was not a plague as he said.
He poisoned them.
Only a few survived and they escaped
on one of our ships.
Freydis…
Was she one of them?
I never saw her. Only her grave.
So Magnus poisoned her.
Yes.
He has already left. After the feast.
Where?
To the North.
To gather the support of the Jarls.
Safe travels, Father.
I still cannot believe
you're sending me to babysit.
You have much to learn
about ruling a country.
Being regent will give you
that opportunity.
I understand.
Goodbye, Canute.
I am under no illusion who has been
ruling Norway all these years.
You're free to return to Mercia
if you wish.
Thank you, but I have made this my home.
And I have reasons to remain.
Good reasons.
- Alfred.
- Mother.
I can't believe he's sending me
back to Normandy.
He's not sending you back. I am.
You're not ready.
Your time is coming, but it is not now.
You must trust me.
When I gave birth to you,
there were already several
of Æthelred's sons
ahead of you for the crown.
But when I held you in my arms,
I knew you would be King.
I still do.
I brought this from Rome for you.
Inside is a piece of wood
from the cross that Jesus died on.
I'm giving it to you with my solemn oath.
One day you will be King of England.
You must be ready for it.
Mother.
Answer me truthfully.
- Will you miss me?
- No.
No. Why not?
Because when I want to be with you
all I have to do is shut my eyes
and feel you in my heart.
Go.
Please take care of my son.
I will let no harm come to him.
Thank you, Harefoot.
Queen Aelfgifu.
A word of warning.
I know. Magnus. I'm fully aware
of the threat on my doorstep.
We would have made a good team.
No, we would have devoured each other.
Thank you, Queen Aelfgifu.
You future is about to become
very difficult.
I pray you have the strength to handle it.
So do I.
My queen.
All right, my friends.
Where do you go
when you've lost everything?
You go back home.
- Until the next summer, my friend.
- Thank you.
Erik.
- Keep well.
- Goodbye.
Daughter!
How was your first night in the cold?
Husband, you are needed in the house.
Take this.
Do you know who I am?
I will be going with you to Kattegat,
do you have a problem with that?
No.
Good.
Move!
Emperor Maniakes.
- Fire!
- Quickly, go! This way.
The prisoner has escaped.
Emperor, Harald has escaped.
Maniakes!
Murderer!
No!
Come face your executioner.
Leave him for me.